---
layout: post
---

Here are a bunch of goodies and "no goods" when you're making a book for the web:

1. **Never use a CSS framework on your book.**
	1. Avoid `bootstrap`, `foundation` or even Eric Meyer's `_reset`, it will ruin your layout.
	2. CSS frameworks are designed for apps and not books.
	3. Use open source CSS [templates](https://github.com/bookiza/templates) for layouts.
	4. Write your own style by hand if it is needed.
	5. Most books do not require more than 10 lines of css code, so writing by hand is highly recommended.


2. **Always set `typography` from the `<head>` of the parent**
	+ i) Use only the CSS template option to add typography for your book
	+ ii) Include `@font-faces` on the first line of your CSS.
	+ ii) Always use web-compatible fonts that are light.
	+ iii) More often than not, stick to the default typography set by Bubblin i.e. [EB Garamond](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/EB+Garamond) by George Duffner for text heavy books.
	+ iv) Choose the largest possible `font-size` in `viewport units` only. We recommend keeping size of text between `4.0vw - 4.2vw` with `line height` of `1.25` at least.
	+ v) Always use high contrast between text & background on your book.


3. **Never copy paste HTML straight from a document**
	+ i) HTML extracted from PDFs or Epubs or other such file systems is usually very low quality. Use carefully.
	+ ii) Avoid copying HTML straight up from websites like Wordpress or Medium, unless it is just paragraph tags.
	+ iii) There is no one-to-one correlation between a PDF file and Superbook. Superbooks are far more capable and accessible.


4. **Internal links**
	+ i) Internal anchors must use Bubblin's (internal hyperlinking API)[https://bubblin.io/book/official-handbook-by-marvin-danig/33], i.e. use class name `page` and `href:` to `page_no`.
	+ ii) Always avoid reloading the whole book when the content is available locally on client.

5. **No ad scripts**
	+ i) No ad or tracking scripts are allowed inside a book. You'll be banned.
	+ ii) Try and keep your scripts to minimum.